Do you think the website has a good UI? Discuss both he good and bad elements in the website’ sUI.
Pros

Keep it simple
The website is simple there's no too much or less information

Common UI Interface
Contact details are available at the end of the page where most contact information is found. 
There is also an arrow pointing where to type and a "Go" button which are commonly used.
"For orders click here" situated at the bottom which is normally where one can find orders icon.

Use of colors and textures
Same background colour is used throughout the website 
There's sufficient contrast between background and texts
Company name is written in green for easy identification.

Communicate
When you click on one of the product there's enough information about the product, stock #, description and price.
Information is available if a user wants to download a form
Clear information is available about warranties, order cancellation, Refusal of shipment and delivery


Cons
"simply the best" can be a challenge to see for people with eyesight problems
Font size of home accessory, equipment and parts must be increased for clear visibility
Faxing your documents is an old method preferably scanning the documents
The website does not look interesting and enticing for the user


UCOOK website

keep it simple
Website is clear and simple

Common UI Interface
log in sign up options available where they are usually placed.
Logo ucook placed at the top left corner where you would expect a website to be.
Facebook, twitter, you tube, TikTok icons are the common icons associated with them.

Use of colours and textures
Background color white is bright enough and blends well with what the website does.
Different colors for different icon makes it easy to identify.

Communicate
Provides advantages why you should order from them
Reviews and FAQ available to get instant feedback from other customers
Option of signing up for a newsletter to get more information.

Cons
There's too much information on one page.
